ABBY: You're auditioning for a spot
on the Abby Lee Dance
Company's competition team.
I've seen everybody dance.
-230, congratulations!
-(laughter)
WOMAN: Your first day.
My first day.
Your reputation precedes you.
ABBY: You save those tears
for your pillow in your room, alone.
You know what? The kid needs somebody.
-She's not that swift.
-How dare you?
Girls, you have to get it together.
How come I'm the only one
who gets aggravated?
KELLY: Because you're the only
that hasn't had a child.
No, but I had a mother and a father,
and if they looked at me one time, I knew.
Oh, don't even go there, you whore.
ABBY: Coming up on Dance Moms.
This weekend,
we are headed to Columbus, Ohio.
-You know who lives in Ohio?
-Candy Apples.
(applause and cheering)
I want you to make applesauce.
It's going to be the battle of the turns,
versus the inchworm.
ABBY: This is about you
getting an Abby Lee Dance Company jacket
or going back to the regular classes.
JILL: You think those girls were nine
and ten years old?
ABBY: No, I don't think
they were nine and 10,
and I'm a little worried.
I think you should be worried too.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Get up, get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is lit by girls ♪
♪ Living on the dance floor ♪
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Girls, let's go.
Come on, girls. Let's go.
All in all, I would call
North Carolina mediocre.
They were cute,
the costumes were adorable,
they were sloppy.
I want to start off talking
a little bit about the dance troupe
in Greensboro, North Carolina.
(pop music playing)
SINGER: ♪ I'm a sexy girl... ♪
ABBY: That was not the group in Lake Tahoe
that just won a national championship.
Obviously, cute still works
in the Carolinas.
Kendall, you did your solo.
Scared to death.
That face was not an Abby Lee Miller face,
that's for certain.
Well, Abby, that was her first time.
Uh-oh, pssh, we don't get to talk.
It's my turn.
This weekend,
we are headed to Columbus, Ohio.
You know who lives in Ohio?
Candy Apples.
(applause and cheering)
ABBY: We are going there,
and she will be at the competition.
CHRISTI: Cathy...
You guys.
She's like a cold sore
that just keeps coming back.
Like, "I'm here, I'm here, I'm here."
And you're like, "God, go away already."
I don't want any squawking
between the mothers.
You all on the same team,
and we're all going to take a bite
out of that big apple.
(laughter)
ABBY: All right,
we're going to start with the pyramid.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: On the bottom, Kendall.
You are on probation.
That means that I am watching you
like a hawk.
Do you understand me?
KENDALL: I'm really sad
that I'm at the bottom of the pyramid,
because I thought I did my best.
Mackenzie, I keep giving you little parts.
Your dancing is not up to where
the rest of the girls are.
When Maddie was seven,
she could have done the choreography.
Brooke, you knew the number,
but the crying and the hysteria...
that's not a young adult.
Paige, you did a nice job this weekend.
Then on the bus coming home,
we told you to sit down 32 times.
I counted.
That's 31 too many.
Every single one of them
were playing on the bus.
But it doesn't make it right.
-She's your daughter.
-You should yell at them too.
No matter what I do,
my kids are always going to be
at the bottom of the pyramid.
I just think it's Abby's
way of torturing me.
ABBY: Nia, I left you here
in the same spot
that you were in last week.
Maybe somebody Nia's family
could show up at the competition
and watch her and clap for her.
Next, we have Chloe.
Chloe, you did a great job.
And at the top of the pyramid is Maddie.
You did a great job,
I've seen you dance better.
I want you to be exactly where you were
in Lake Tahoe.
Every single person
is going to be in the group dance.
It is called Bad Apples.
(laughter)
ABBY: It's a little '40's,
has a little novelty,
but it's a little Katie Perry.
It's a little ticked up.
So I want to pin-up girl look.
We have the wrap, we have the snood.
MACKENZIE: I'm not putting a wrap
in my hair.
And a snood?
What's a snood?
If you don't know what a wrap
or a snood is, go Google it,
figure it out.
When you go on stage for that competition,
you better be on fire.
Brooke, you're doing a solo.
Cathy has a girl entered your age.
I want you to make applesauce
out of that kid.
Backstage, freak that kid out.
I want that kid in tears
before she ever steps on that stage.
All right, Candy Apples, applesauce.
Squish 'em.
All right moms, you're dismissed.
Girls, spread apart.
Let's up and start doing the number.
Let's go.
Music.
WOMAN: How're you?
WOMAN: Good Lord.
WOMAN: I just want to say, stand up tall.
WOMAN: So what did you think
of your first pyramid?
Yeah, you never know.
I didn't know what to expect.
I really didn't think
she'd be on the bottom.
-Mackenzie--
-It's because you're new.
I know, I--I know.
But still, I thought that was
a lot of pressure on a little kid.
Kendall absolutely should be
on the bottom of that pyramid.
I think Kendall should take up
permanent residency
at the bottom of the pyramid.
We've been dealing with this one
for a long time.
You've got like three days
under your belt, sister.
Get used to the bottom row.
I do this.
Big.
Little.
The number we're doing for a Rising Star
is called the Bad Apples.
It's a 1940s number.
A little Andrews Sisters,
a little Katie Perry.
And also a little jab to Cathy
from Candy Apple.
In three days she learned a solo,
they switched the music the night before.
That's what we do every week.
WOMAN: My kid still has no music.
I just don't understand why
she couldn't have thrown her
a little bone.
Jill was up there bitching,
because Kendall was at the bottom.
I just don't get it.
I've been in Abby's studio for 30 years,
and my kids are always at the bottom.
She's already starting off on a bad foot.
I don't think it's fair for her
to put a new kid
who did a solo and did well
at the bottom of the pyramid.
KELLY: But do you think it's okay
for a kid who's been here for nine years
to be at the bottom of the pyramid?
HOLLY: Basically Nia, Chloe, or Maddie
have to be bumped down
in order for it to be okay
is what I'm hearing.
-Well, sort of.
-HOLLY: That's what I'm hearing.
In order for Kendall to go up,
someone on top has to go down.
Who has to go down?
Is it Nia?
Is it Chloe?
Is it Maddie?
I had an idea of who she suspects
should be at the bottom of the pyramid.
-It's so subjective.
-Do you think Kendall's better than Nia?
Well, I think had Kendall
and competed directly
against each other, I do.
I mean, that's just--
I'm just being honest, Holly.
MELISSA: Kendall was the star
at her studio,
and now she's not the star.
And I think that's really
hard for Jill to handle.
You say you want to be accepted
and you want to be part of the group,
but then you come in here and--
look, you can't lay down the gauntlet
saying my kid's better
than all of your kids.
I kind of think of this group
as a little bit like a sorority.
Like you pledge a little bit,
you kind of like, you sit back,
you pay your dues,
and then you get to the top.
Like I don't think you can come in here
expecting to be like,
boom I'm at the top because I say so.
-I think she deserves it.
-(interposing voices)
We all work.
I can't worry about your kids,
I've got to worry about mine.
Don't worry about my daughter.
I'm just telling you,
she's not going to give you everything,
because she doesn't give me everything,
and I've been here
a whole hell of a lot longer than you.
So wait a minute,
you're in your honeymoon period.
You probably could get away with
talking to her,
where the rest of us can never say a word.
You might be able to get her ear
and, like--and speak your piece.
Do I interrupt this class?
I suggested that Jill go down
and talk to Abby,
because I think everyone needs
a little initiation
when you join our group,
and the best way to get that
is to go right in there
and tell Abby Miller how you feel.
Hold eight, flick at one.
Point your feet, Mackenzie.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Ready? Go, move!
JILL: Abby, I need to talk to you.
Can we have two minutes? Two minutes?
ABBY: You shouldn't even be in here
with those shoes on.
Jill doesn't understand how
the dynamics in my studio work.
She's been at this a long time.
She spends thousands of dollars
on competition entrance fees
when she should have been spending
all that money on technique classes.
Does anybody have any popcorn?
(makes sound)
ABBY: You really need to go
stay with other mothers.
JILL: I just wanted to talk to you
about Kendall.
Give me a minute.
ABBY: Maddie, (indistinct)
-We've played by your rules.
-Right?
I'm a little disappointed that
Kendall's at the bottom of the pyramid.
Abby, I need to know
what you need for me to get her up.
I don't need anything from you.
(dramatic music playing)
Ladies, I didn't hear anybody counting.
One, and two, and three, and four and.
Look at her feet,
they're not even together.
they're still not together.
Kendall, squeeze your feet, honey.
-Put your ankles together.
-We can't have honey, honey, honey.
-Leave it up to me.
-I will.
-She will sink, or she will swim.
-And I'm counting on you.
-Right.
-And I have faith on you.
You're going to pay a lot of money
to go to Harvard.
Someone's going to be the valedictorian,
and thousands of other people aren't.
KELLY: I liked watching Abby
shut Jill down,
just because Jill definitely
has ulterior motives.
I think she'll do anything
to get Kendall ahead.
Does everyone wants to
be at the top of pyramid?
ALL: Yes.
Well...
-Okay?
-All right.
-Let's go.
-All right, work it.
(dramatic music playing)
CATHY: Now is the time for us
to show our technique.
Keep our toes pointed, straight knees,
keep everything nice and tight.
We're going to get busy.
I haven't seen any of the dance moms
since we came back from LA,
and LA was really humiliating for me.
But you know, I had to brush myself off
and get a game plan.
And when the dance moms
from Abby Lee Dance Center see us,
they are going to be blown away.
Higher! Higher! Higher!
Yeah, see, that's beautiful?
(dramatic music playing)
CHRISTI: How about Jill?
Uh, being mad that Kendall's
at the bottom of the pyramid.
-I know.
-Hello, you're brand new.
Oh, I'm a team player,
but I can't worry about your girls.
Kelly and I are at lunch,
and of course, the main topic
of conversation is the new girl.
Oh.
I forgot, I brought something to show you.
(dramatic music playing)
I have a book from a competition
from a few years ago.
Oh, you're kidding me.
Uh-uh, because I keep my books.
Chloe, Maddie, and Kendall
all danced in the same age group
against one another solos.
And Jill never remembered
our girls beating her daughter.
I remember.
Chloe was actually three,
Maddie was one, Kendall was ten.
Are you going to take that
and show her tonight?
-I might.
-KELLY: Oh, I think you should.
She doesn't know what she's messing with,
because I've got these books
from years back.
So if she wants to play that game,
I'll pull them all out.
I think there's more to Jill's story
than meets the eye.
I think that we all need to do
a little digging
and find out why she's a studio hopper
and why all of a sudden
she's knocking on our door
when she's lived
down the street from us for years.
I there's a lot to be learned about Jill.
And I think it's better to know
what you're dealing with
than to be blindsided.
Anyone who talks like this all the time...
just can't be trusted.
(pop music playing)
ABBY: Brooke's routine, Garden of Eden,
is a lyrical acrobatic routine,
and she's really going to
impress the judges.
She's going to leave
everybody wanting more.
That head is like the drop. What is that?
The word on the street is that
Cathy has entered somebody
directly against Brooke
as far as age goes.
So Brooke needs to go out there
and show everybody that she is flawless.
(dramatic music playing)
CATHY: As you know, we've just added
the Abby Lee Dance Company
as part of our repertoire of enemies.
And particularly Brooke.
Brooke is a title winner just like you.
Is she a two time title winner like you?
No.
I think that my main message to Abby is
yes, she's a very good dance studio,
and so are we.
You're wondering what's going on, head.
Is Abby the only person that
has a dance studio that is successful?
No.
Cathy has a dance studio
that's very successful too.
Brooke over here, I think her forte
is like laying on the floor
and then crawling around on her neck.
But you, on the other hand,
have these amazing combination pirouettes.
And Miss Vivi,
Erika is going to look at you,
she's going to look at you.
That's your cue, okay?
Don't be sitting over here sleeping.
You've got to dance like you want a puppy,
you've got to earn your puppy.
Now's the time.
Okay? That was our deal.
Yes?
Now's the time to earn our puppy.
Oh, I'm sorry, honey.
Okay.
We ready?
Oh my God, I did that?
Yeah.
I hope I can still dance.
CATHY: Okay, let's go.
Just a minor tragedy.
(upbeat music playing)
(tapping)
ABBY: Five, six, seven, eight.
Pliet when you land. Turn out, turn out.
Oh, my God,
I know what I wanted to show you.
I was going through Chloe's shelf,
and I found the book from the competition
that we were talking about.
-Oh, which one?
-The one that we were saying--yeah.
And I have all the scores written down
from that competition.
Chloe was third, Maddie was first,
but Kendall was tenth.
So...
KELLY: Christi brought the program book
to show it to Jill,
because she wants her to know,
my daughter is going to
be a threat to you.
But you don't care about winning.
JILL: I'm not going to let them get to me.
Even if they're intimidated by me
or my little eight-year-old,
I'm going to make it work.
-I like these ones.
-Yeah.
-You guys want to see the snoods?
-CHRISTI: That's just like starting.
Where did you find snoods?
-KELLY: Oh, that's the--that’s the rat.
-That’s the rat.
KELLY: Ew.
I did not want us to be
able to find these things.
Abby has us wearing a rat.
A rat is a foam thing
that you roll your hair in,
and it makes you look
kind of like George Washington.
(laughs)
The ugliest thing ever.
When you saw how ugly those were,
why would you purchase them?
JILL: Okay.
KELLY: You go, you tell her you looked,
and they didn't have them.
Let's go show her.
KELLY: Jill needs to learn.
You just tell Abby,
we don't know where they're at,
we can't find them,
and then you don't have to wear them.
Like, "Oh, if this is what Abby wants,
if I get it,
maybe I'll move up the pyramid."
Exactly.
All the other moms will complain about it.
And these two are like, "Do my hair.
Are we at a junior high sleepover?
-Can you do my hair?"
-(giggling)
CHRISTI: I think Jill is really
trying to make an effort
to appear as a team player at this point,
because it's all she has.
She wants to be a member of the team,
and her position is very precarious.
So I think once she becomes
a member of the team,
the tides are going to turn
a little bit with Jill.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Stop!
Paige, what are you doing?
Okay, let's just go again. Just go again.
I'm going to go in
and give my kids the props.
And then--oh, can I have the hat?
Yes.
And I'm just going to say--
WOMAN: They're lining up, Kell.
Maddie, no more stupid mistakes up there.
What are you doing?
KELLY: Are they running solos?
-ABBY: Yeah.
-I'm going to put these props in here.
ABBY: Kelly, if she's 13,
let her carry it herself.
Next time, you can come up--
she didn't know I brought a hat.
Whatever. You're wasting more time.
-You want me to run the solos--
-KELLY: Well, you're yelling at me
for bringing them the stuff
that they need.
Do you want us to be hands-on moms?
Because you just told Nia
her mom didn't love her.
I want you to be gone,
and I want to get the two 14-year-olds
that came to the audition
-and put them in the dance.
-KELLY: Go ahead! Throw me out!
-Throw me out! Go ride ahead.
-ABBY: Go.
Kelly has absolutely no right
to interrupt the classroom.
Nobody pays that much money.
No one.
Are you drunk?
KELLY: Who the hell is she to ask me
if I'm drinking?
-In front of a dance class.
-That's where it crossed a line.
That is not correct.
Whether I was drinking or not
is none of her damn business.
And to say it in front of my children,
that's ridiculous.
Watch the glissade. Turn it out!
KELLY: She wonders why my kids
want to do other things.
I mean would you want to go
to your extracurricular activity
and do nothing but get yelled at?
I mean, it's supposed to be fun.
I was so frustrated.
I feel like I should stick up for myself,
but no matter what I do,
she still keeps torturing me
and torturing my kids.
I kind of feel, like, I'm between a rock
and a hard place.
I want my kids to stay there at the studio
because they love it there,
but I'm not doing my job as a mom
by letting her treat them that way.
I just can't take it anymore.
(tense music playing)
I just don't know why
I let my kids do this.
I--I can't...
I'm torturing my kids.
(dramatic music playing)
CATHY: One, two, three, four, five, six.
One, two, three, four, five, six.
Okay, stop.
Stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop.
I want to talk about that.
From you two, I'm getting this.
That's not what I want.
I want the shoulders down
so you would stick your hip out,
instead of giving me this
which looks really stupid.
I came up with a new plan
to come back with a vengeance.
This competition is on my home turf,
and those dance moms
aren't going to know what hit them.
Stop looking at me.
Look at me with your ears.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: Girls, come on, listen to me.
Tomorrow you are leaving for competition,
and you're all acting like
a bunch of three-year-olds
at your first recital costume.
Stop, get over there,
and start working on the number.
MADDIE: I'm feeling, kind of, happy
that we get to go to Ohio
and compete against the Candy Apples.
I mean, I don't really care
if we don't win.
But I think we will win.
CHRISTI: Ew, are those our costumes?
Not my favorite.
Wait till we put the snood on.
Oh.
Ugly.
That's not very Katie Perry.
Now we're going to hear a snood and a rat?
KELLY: Abby wants us to go
and make applesauce out of the Candy
but here we are with an ugly costume,
rats and snoods,
and we're doing '40's moves.
-JILL: You think she'll be rude to me?
-Yes.
WOMAN: Oh, absolutely.
HOLLY: I think it's guilty by association.
She'll be like,
you're replacing me in the group.
I would expect nothing less from Cathy
than her shenanigans that she pulls.
I wouldn't be surprised
if she comes backstage
and tries to like steal costumes
off of our kids backs that we paid for.
Or if she tries to get out of us
what music we're using.
Like although those
are last year's tricks.
I'm sure she'll have
something new up her sleeve.
KELLY: Well, she's after Brooke
this week, so--
-WOMAN: Oh.
-WOMAN: No, it's okay.
WOMAN: Bring it.
(pop music playing)
ABBY: Nia, your (indistinct)
instructions--
-What's the word?
-What about the world's ugliest costumes?
Nothing about that,
but Abby wants Jill and Holly downstairs.
Why?
Crap. We're going to find out.
ABBY: Rehearsals aren't going as well
as I would like.
I had to call Holly and Jill down.
I wanted them to see with their own eyes
what Nia and Kendall keep doing wrong.
Watch Nia, watch this show.
It's a split jeté change stretch.
You see that front foot?
Completely flexed.
And watch, look at Kendall's--
they never are together.
CHRISTI: So did you find
anything out about Jill?
Well, I--
CHRISTI: She's down there.
You can speak freely.
Did she mention to you like,
why all of a sudden
she decided to come here?
She said she's wanted
to come here for years.
-But I said, why--
-I don't believe that for one minute.
KELLY: She lives down the street,
and yet she drove an hour
in each direction.
I just think she gets tired of studios.
KELLY: Me too, but somehow I stick it out.
CHRISTI: I don't know,
I've heard some stuff,
and I don't think
it's getting tired of studios.
-Really? What have you heard?
-If anything, it's--
(cheerful music playing)
Thank you.
ABBY: Bus driver Jim,
why didn't we jump on the turnpike
and hit 79 the other way
so we wouldn't miss all this traffic?
CHRISTI: She yells at the bus driver
every time we get on the bus.
Apparently, that little navigation system
in front isn't good enough.
You need to put Abby Lee Miller
on your dashboard
so she can give you the directions.
MELISSA: Hey, why don't you give Abby
her little gift we got her.
CHRISTI: In a shocking turn of events,
Melissa and Jill announced
that they went shopping
and they bought a gift for Abby,
because that's what I think about
when I'm shopping,
what can I bring Abby?
It's just a little something
that Melissa and I...
(laughter)
JILL: ...we saw it and thought of you.
ABBY: Ooh.
Pretty.
Now I need a gold outfit to go with it.
And gold earrings and a gold necklace.
JILL: You can get that next week.
Hey, ladies, I'm going to put this away,
but thank you very much
for thinking of me.
How about the next time you're out,
I need a husband.
(upbeat music playing)
Girls, come on. Let's go.
This is a very important competition,
there's a lot at stake.
We have a group number against
Candy Apple and Brooke's solo.
Never a dull moment
in the Abby Lee Dance Company.
(indistinct chatter)
Oh, I got mail.
So we arrive at the hotel in Columbus,
and as we're checking in,
Kelly gets a note.
We are cordially invited to a soiree
in the presidential suite
downtown Columbus.
Cocktail attire encouraged.
What kind of event is this?
-(squeals)
-What is it?
-Let me see.
-Oh, no.
A freaking apple.
(laughter)
KELLY: I just don't know what Cathy is
trying to provide inviting us to a party,
but we're going to go.
(jazz music playing)
MELISSA: Hi, you're not wearing a gown.
Thank goodness you're not wearing a gown.
We thought you'd be wearing a gown.
CATHY: You know how you're supposed
to keep your friends close
and your enemies closer?
Well, these ladies need to see
the way my studio travels,
its first class all the way.
Something Abby Lee doesn't
know anything about.
Have you guys missed me?
CATHY: I am actually excited to see Abby,
I hate to say it.
Do you think she's a good leader?
She just wants our kids
to be the best they can be.
I just feel you guys would be so happy
if you were someplace
where you had a good leader.
I don't think there's
anything wrong with that.
How many fights have you had
with her already?
KELLY: Oh, God, I don't even know.
It seems like it's a negative
experience for you guys.
Why don't you go somewhere
where you're going to be happy?
CHRISTI: Never in a million years
did I ever think
Cathy would try to poach us from Abby.
I thought she hated us.
Abby is still playing her games.
That's too bad.
(tense music playing)
Get them up, get them up.
ABBY: When we got off of the bus,
I told my girls and their mothers,
game faces on.
CATHY: Abby Lee, she draws on abs.
We have real abs.
Keep going.
There they are.
Keep your heads up high, all right?
And remember, no running,
hugging, kissing.
Just, "Hi, how are you?"
Guys, guys, guys, guys, come here.
Don't even look at them.
Do not look at them, keep your eyes on me.
Hey. How are you?
You forgot a curler?
(laughter)
Very fashionable.
ABBY: Nobody could tell me?
-Hi, guys. How are you?
-ABBY: Oh, my God.
GIRL: Hi.
Come on. Let's go girls.
-All right. Good to see you.
-Thank you.
I'm going to overturn that apple cart.
Cathy is going to go after the jumps,
the turns, the tricks.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to go with entertainment value.
I'm going to pull my bow and arrow,
and I am going to be right on target.
Ladies, think of everything
I yell at you about five days ago,
four days ago, three days ago,
two days ago, yesterday.
Go over that dance in your head.
This is really important to me personally,
it's really important to your moms.
JILL: Kendall's a competitor,
but I'm not sure she fully understands
what's at stake here.
ABBY: Kendall, this is about you
getting an Abby Lee
League Dance Company jacket
or going back to the regular process.
You understand?
Yes, mom? You understand that?
-JILL: I do.
-Okay.
So to--in order to do that, I expect--
I want your corrections
that I've corrected fixed.
Kendall forgets
that she is still on probation.
And unless these technical issues
get cleaned up quickly...
her days are numbered.
KELLY: Ready for a snood?
HOLLY: And what about that?
Let me go over this whole hair thing.
HOLLY: I think the most stressful part
of getting the girls ready
for the competition is the hair.
If your snood or your rat
comes undone on stage,
that is not going to be good.
ABBY: Wait a minute, wait a minute here.
-This is a snood.
-I know.
We have to--we can't wear
different things on stage, you guys.
Why am I finding out this now?
You know, these moms
may not know the difference
between snoods, but I can tell.
Some are thick crocheted knitted scnoods,
and the other are really thin nylon
almost like a hairnet.
Every one of these snoods
has to be exactly the same.
Details could make or break a number.
But why didn't you buy
seven new ones of that?
HOLLY: Because when I left
yesterday morning,
I searched around four different stores
Saturday morning.
That's what I got.
But nobody told me, I would've said,
"Hey, Holly,
don't buy something different."
Where you? Where were you?
Four different stores,
four different stores,
four different stores.
Holly, go to 14 different stores
and then start complaining.
I said, buy seven of the same thing.
You know what, I'm getting sick and tired
about hearing these snoods, okay?
ABBY: I want the thin ones
that Holly bought
in everybody's hair,
and I want this in Nia's hair.
We have to have the same thing.
I'm the choreographer.
Yoo-hoo, I'm over here.
I designed the costume.
The rats and the snoods make the number.
What do you mean last night?
MELISSA: We had a soiree--
We had a soiree,
and she was the only person there.
Wait a minute, wait a minute,
wait a minute.
When I left last night,
you all didn't go up to your rooms?
JILL: No, we went and changed.
Well, I think that's
really going behind my back,
and I don't appreciate it.
But what does she have to say?
Because that's solicitation.
KELLY: She was asking us
why we stay at your studio.
She just had some
not so nice things to say about you.
I would never go
and invite a bunch of moms
from another dance studio to my room
and then talk about their teacher.
I can't believe
that Cathy went behind my back again
and invited my dance moms
to a cocktail party.
Who does that?
That just goes to show you
Cathy is underhanded tricks again
thinking it's going to get her
out in the competition.
Not.
All right, girls. Let's go.
Break a leg!
(interposing voices)
-CATHY: Are you the new little girl?
-KENDALL: Yeah.
Are you the one that said hi to me?
-That walked by?
-No, I don't think so.
Oh. Hey, good luck.
Thank you.
ABBY: You know, I didn't appreciate Cathy
going up to Kendall in the wings
and wishing her good luck.
Oh, you're the new girl?
Good luck.
She's a grown adult,
why would you do that to a little kid?
What's up with your guys' hair?
It's interesting.
Okay, have fun.
We are going to just
slaughter the Candy Apples.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Next up, Abby Lee
Dance Company with "Bad Apples".
(upbeat music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Bad Apple ♪
♪ Bad Apple ♪
(cheering)
SINGER: ♪ Bad Apple ♪
♪ Honey, won't you meet me
at the apple tree? ♪
♪ Just you and me
with no one else around ♪
♪ Honey, won't you meet me
at the apple tree? ♪
♪ Just you and me
with no one else around ♪
♪ So that's a double slice
of that big apple pie ♪
♪ Juicy red and shiny all around ♪
♪ Oh ♪
♪ You're the cutest apple
that I've found ♪
CATHY: So I'm watching
the Abby Lee dancers,
and all of the little Apples.
I was clearly represented.
I love it.
(cheers and applause)
SINGER: ♪ Honey, won't you meet me
at the apple tree? ♪
♪ It’s you and me
with no one else around ♪
♪ So that’s a double slice
of that big apple pie ♪
♪ Juicy red and shiny all around ♪
♪ Ooh ♪
(cheers and applause)
CHRISTI: I really think that their faces,
and their facial expression,
and kind of that old fashioned look
really stood out during the performance.
I thought they did great.
ANNOUNCER: Next up, Candy Apples
Dance Company with "Baile Española".
(cheers and applause)
Go girls!
(upbeat music playing)
MELISSA: These girls totally look
a lot older than our kids.
They look 14, 15.
(cheers and applause)
ABBY: They were well trained,
their technique was beautiful,
they were doing five and six turns
together as a group.
I am really concerned.
(interposing voices)
(cheers and applause)
(indistinct chatter)
HOLLY: After watching the number,
I'm not certain that our girls
are going to pull it off.
Yeah.
They looked really old.
Some of them were almost my height.
ABBY: And I really questioned
Cathy's integrity,
because you don't want to be known
as somebody that lies
about kids' ages at a competition.
Well, that went down the tubes, didn't it?
JILL: What?
Well, when Kendall goes early,
it doesn't hold
and doesn't listen to the music.
-Kendall, do you play an instrument?
-KENDALL: No.
You need to.
You need to learn to read music.
You need to learn to hear it.
You have to step up the face
if you're standing next to this one.
She was over the top with the face.
Girls, this was an easy, baby dance.
I'm very upset with the girls.
This was an easy piece, and they blew it.
JILL: Abby, don't think those girls
were much older than ours?
They looked much older.
That's my job.
I need to worry about that.
JILL: Do you think those girls
were nine and 10 years old?
No, I don't think they were nine and 10.
However, I look like an idiot
that I just can't win on our own talent,
and choreography, and costuming...
JILL: I think we can win.
...that I have to call somebody out,
because I think their kids are too old.
I'm going to have to walk out of here
with my tail between my legs
getting beat by Cathy from Candy Apple.
And I'm a little worried.
I think you should be worried too.
(tense music playing)
(cheers and applause)
It's not Amish.
CATHY: Yes, it is.
No, you should know that.
It's '40's.
You know what, Cathy?
Why don't you go think of something
good to say and then come back
and talk to me.
Because if that's all you got,
it's not that good.
(tense music playing)
(cheers and applause)
ABBY: They're about
to announce the group awards,
and I'm dreading it.
Cathy's girls are good.
I think this might be
the one time that Cathy beats us.
ANNOUNCER: Third place,
number 47, "Dock of the Bay".
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Second (indistinct)
number 44, "Baile Española".
(cheers and applause)
(indistinct) small group number 43,
"Apple Tree".
(cheers and applause)
KELLY: I guess that Abby was right
about the wrath of the snood,
because we did win first place.
I guess the judges liked that.
It went with the theme of the dance.
I think it's time for some pork chops
and apple sauce.
(laughter)
How do you like them apples, Cathy?
CATHY: It's beyond words for me.
I am totally, totally irritated
with this whole situation.
It's an outrage that she won.
Our dance was far superior.
Did you see how pissed Cathy was?
Ooh, she was.
I would love to see
the scores on that one.
I'm sorry, and you know me,
I don't ever rock the boat.
But that was--that was a no-brainer.
She's got a 287,
"Baile Española" scored a 275.
Oh, my God, that is utterly ridiculous.
Abby Lee has barely beaten us
in this group number,
but right now I don't have time
to just sit and brood about that.
I've got to focus on Erica,
because Erica is going up against Brooke
in a couple of minutes,
and I think we can still win this.
They were sitting behind us,
and I heard them saying,
we're sweating bullets.
So you know what?
They were nervous,
their knees were knocking,
their butts were shaking.
Brooke, warmed up?
Nothing sloppy,
don't worry about the Apple.
I am relieved that that
group competition is over.
I was really worried
that we were going to lose.
Now I need to concentrate on Brooke,
because those older girls
up against her are very talented.
We're on 102, so you have one more,
and then you're up.
Thank you.
The Candy Apples did a great job,
so at that point,
I was getting really nervous.
(cheers and applause)
Beautiful.
ANNOUNCER: Next up, Abby Lee solo,
"Garden of Eden".
(ethereal music playing)
KELLY: Good job.
(applause)
(ethereal music playing)
(cheers and applause)
KELLY: Abby look at me
and was like, she did great.
For Abby to say that,
Brooke had to do pretty good.
I love you.
Good luck.
CATHY: It's all up to Erica right now
to bring us some justice.
ANNOUNCER: Next up, Candy Apple solo,
"Through the Looking Glass".
SINGER: ♪ If you had a chance to see ♪
♪ More than you could ever see ♪
♪ If you had a chance to know ♪
♪ All that people really show ♪
♪ Peep behind the curtains
take a look inside ♪
♪ The secrets that the world don't know ♪
♪ What we try to hide ♪
♪ What we can't define ♪
♪ There are things you can't explain ♪
♪ (indistinct) in the rain ♪
(cheers and applause)
ABBY: I think Brooke
gave an amazing performance,
but I'm a little bit worried,
because that other girl from Candy Apple
was much more mature than Brooke.
(clapping)
CATHY: You made it look fabulous.
Go hug your mommy.
-It was fabulous.
-Aw.
CATHY: Yay.
MELISSA: It doesn't seem like she was
from Cathy's studio at all.
Exactly.
-She's at least 15.
-Yeah.
CHRISTI: There's no way that kid's 11, 12.
I don't think so either.
-Hi there.
-CATHY: Hello.
I was just wondering if we could talk
to Cathy and Erica's mom.
CATHY: Sure.
-If you guys could come upstairs with me?
-Mm-hmm.
They're questioning Erica's age.
-Who is?
-The competition.
Yeah, because I was back there,
and the girl walked over and goes,
we need birth certificates
for Cathy's students.
Hi, Cathy. I'm Leigh with Rising Star.
Hi. Nice to meet you.
We've got a lot of people questioning--
-Yeah?
-Erica?
-Yes.
-Erica's age.
-Yeah.
-We have people complaining
that they have seen her perform
in the 14 age division
at other competitions.
CATHY: Okay, so I don't have
birth certificates.
I didn't have to have
a birth certificates at the last--
Let me ask you a question,
how old is Erica in her date of birth?
-Erica is 14.
-GINA: Correct.
-January--yeah.
-January 17, 1997.
-So '97, she's 13, 14, then?
-GINA: Yeah.
All right, she is in
the wrong age division.
And so is Brooke.
Okay, I'll take that up in a minute with--
-We definitely need to take that up, okay?
-LEIGH: Okay. I will.
-I promise you, okay.
-Okay.
LEIGH: Hi, Abby.
-ABBY: Hi, how are you?
-Good.
We got somebody questioning Brooke's age.
ABBY: Okay, she's 13, and she turned--
LEIGH: When is her birth date?
January--
Of what year?
LEIGH: Of '98.
Our ages go as of the first of the year,
-so she would have been 12...
-Right.
...the first year she turned 13
in January.
Right.
ABBY: I can call and get it faxed.
LEIGH: That'll do.
KELLY: Some of the people
at the competition
thought that Brooke wasn't
in the correct age category.
Is one of them Candy Apple, Cathy Nesbitt?
-Yes, she is.
-I mean, that girl she had in there...
-LEIGH: Uh-huh.
-...there is no way that she's 12.
LEIGH: No, she is not.
She is 13, 14.
-We've already moved her out--
-ABBY: Okay good. 'Cause I was gonna say.
I mean, you know how long
I've been doing it.
I have never seen a dance instructor
blatantly lie about a kid's age
to try to beat me.
Erika is a beautiful dancer.
Had her teacher entered her
in the right age division,
she probably would have
won the whole thing.
But, instead, she was disqualified.
CATHY: But you know what?
It doesn't matter.
Those people who ruin it
are just the ones that are jealous.
Brooke just competed,
and they're questioning her age.
COMPETITION DIRECTOR: Okay.
ABBY: Brooke is 13 years old.
She was born in January of 1998,
which makes her 12
for this particular cutoff date.
They need her birth certificate.
Is there any way you
could take a picture with your phone
and send it to the judge?
I have the judge's phone number.
COMPETITION DIRECTOR:
I have it right here.
Thank you.
ABBY: I called my competition director.
She faxed over the birth certificate.
Everything was good.
My apple seeds are all lined up in a row.
ANNOUNCER: (indistinct), age 11, 12.
At second place, platinum score
number 103, "Desert Rain".
(cheering)
Our first place Platinum score
number 104, "Garden of Eden"
from Abby Lee Dance Company.
ABBY: Good job. Great job.
I'm proud of everybody.
You worked hard.
Whoo.
BROOKE: I ended up getting first, overall.
And I was really excited.
And I just hope Abby's proud
because I really worked hard for this.
-CATHY: Hi, guys.
-ABBY: Hello.
-How are you?
-ABBY: Good.
CATHY: I just wanted to tell you
that your red
was such a nice tribute to Candy Apples.
And--
My colors have been
black and red since 19--
whatever--80--
Oh, better give me
a birth certificate on that.
CATHY: Mine have been
red and white since--
-mine have been red and white--
-Wait a minute.
That woman went right to nasty,
rotten to the core.
The moms were telling me
that you were really...
-Oh, you know what?
-...kind of dissing me. (bleep)
Wondering why they're still with me.
-CATHY: Just questioning--
-Cathy, something tells me
that you would love to have us.
Oh, you think way too highly of yourself,
-especially the way you dress.
-Listen, Granny.
You know what, Christi?
-Take it out to the hallway.
-All right.
Listen, Nose--
CHRISTI: Leave it to Cathy
to take it to below the belt level.
You've done nothing
but complain about her forever.
-You need to take your cheap dress...
-My dress is not cheap.
-CATHY: ...and mosey on out.
-It's Ralph Lauren there, Honey.
CATHY: Oh, I highly doubt it. Awe.
CHRISTI: Go back to Junior High, Grandma.
Cathy is the geriatric mean girl.
Be gone, Witch.
You have no powers here.